Introduction rewrite (#51)
greenelab/annorxiver_manuscript: content/02.introduction.md

## Introduction

> Scientific communication has been around since the beginning of science where the main form of communication was through scientific meetings [@raw:smith2006trouble].

Reviewer: This leaves out letters sent directly between pairs of scientists. I realize that the Smith paper is asserting that, but is it true? The comment itself in the Smith paper lacks references.

My impression is that communication included direct meetings but also individually addressed letters and books. How did someone like Tycho Brahe communicate?

> Communicating through scientific journals started back in the 17th century [@raw:smith2006trouble] but didn't pick up until the 1960s where National Institutes of Health (NIH) created an exchange network that allowed scientists to share unreferred manuscripts with one another [@doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.2003995].

Reviewer: I'm confused here. Is the argument that the NIH's unrefereed manuscript exchange network is related to when communicating through journals picked up?

> These networks were brough to a halt due to pressure from scientific journals; however, this sparked a movement to begin using preprints within the scientific community [@doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.2003995]. 

Reviewer: I thought this article made the point that the movement was shut down. How does this relate to the change today, which appears to be more inspired out of physics?

> The longest recorded use of preprints was with physicists during the 1990s [@doi:10.15252/embj.201695531] and over the past few decades preprints have made a resurgence within the life sciences community [@doi:10.7554/eLife.45133.001' @doi:10.1038/530265a; @doi:10.1016/j.bpj.2016.06.035; @doi:10.1126/science.aaf9133; @doi:10.1038/s41557-020-0477-5; @doi:10.1371/journal.pmed.1002549; @doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.3000151; @doi:10.1099/mgen.0.000259].

Reviewer: To Larry's point, I wonder if these articles are about preprints or preprint repositories:

> The changes recently really are as much about search and free online access (characteristics of repositories, not preprints themselves) as much as it is about scientists writing them or making them available to peers. This distinction actually is worth making throughout.

For example, does that paper about physics in the 90s actually discuss arXiv (a repository) as opposed to the use of preprints? If so, this needs to be restructured a bit since you draw a distinction below.

Preprints are now hosted on online repositories, where users have open and easy access to these works.
Notable repositories include arXiv [@doi:10.1108/14666180010345564], bioRxiv [@doi:10.1101/833400] and medRxiv [@url:https://www.medrxiv.org/]; however, there are over 60 different repositories available [@url:https://scholarlykitchen.sspnet.org/2019/10/16/the-second-wave-of-preprint-servers-how-can-publishers-keep-afloat/].
Previous work that focused on the bioRxiv repository found that life science preprints are being posted at an increase rate [@doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.3000269].
Furthermore, these preprints are also being rapidly shared on social media, routinely downloaded, and cited [@doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0047523].
Certain categories of preprints seem to be read and shared differently by both scientists and non-scientists [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.06.981589].
Plus, life science articles with matching preprint versions are cited and discussed more often than articles without them [@doi:10.1162/qss_a_00043; @doi:10.7554/eLife.52646].

> These studies have primarily focused on the metadata behind preprints; however, the textual content contained within preprints has yet to be examined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Studies of the modern life sciences preprint repositories have primarily focused on the metadata associated with preprints; however, the textual content contained within preprints in these repositories has yet to be examined.
```
I think restricted to the domain of modern life sciences preprint repositories this is true. You should do a literature search to confirm.

Preprints have often faced skepticism within the life science community [@doi:10.1371/journal.pgen.1008565; @doi:10.1136/bmj.m3111; @doi:10.1007/s10393-018-1352-3; @doi:10.1073/pnas.1511912112].

> One particular problem focuses on the publication process and the time it takes for preprints to become published.

Reviewer: Is this a problem, an avenue of inquiry, or something else? Is the problem that some preprints are never published in peer reviewed form? Is that a problem?

I am somewhat missing the connection here.

Previous work found that between two-thirds to three-quarters of preprints are eventually published [@doi:10.7554/eLife.45133.001; @doi:10.1002/pra2.175].
In respect to time, previous work estimated that preprints take an average of 160 days to become published [@doi:10.2139/ssrn.3455146], while preprints with a single version often take less time than preprints with multiple versions [@doi:10.2139/ssrn.3455146].

> Despite these discoveries a missing piece is understanding which part of a preprint changes during the peer review process.

Reviewer: I think you've done more than this - you are also looking at _where_ it is published (similarity search).

Furthermore, past work has looked at the fields on bioRxiv by looking at author-selected categories, but you're looking at the text itself.

I worry that the scoping here is too narrow to set up the motivation for your work. This intro seems to mainly set up the work in one of your figures.

In this work we sought to understand the language landscape within the bioRxiv corpus and contextualize how this language changes under the guise of peer review.

> To our knowledge this is the first time anyone has conducted a linguistic analysis on this repository.

Reviewer: I think Larry wanted more than the primacy argument for significance:

> Why is this being done? There needs to be a significance argument here. There are controversies about preprints — how will this work address them?

Are there any interesting/important reasons to study this?

One benefit of analyzing this repository is that we can examine the influence of the publication process and ascertain how this process impacts scholarly literature on a global scale.

> 

Reviewer: I think this got left out:

> Once the motivation for doing the work is clear, provide a separate paragraph about the motivation for the particular pre-analytical choices about approach.

The changes to the results sections are also starting to remove these elements, so if your broad approach isn't justified here, that justification isn't going to be in the manuscript at all.

## Introduction

Scientific communication has been around since the beginning of science where one of the earliest paradigms was oral communication [@doi:10.1021/ci00050a001].
During the 17th century, the predominate form of communication shifted to personal letters that were shared from one scientist to another [@doi:10.1021/ci00050a001].

> Scientific journals didn't take precedence until the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scientific journals didn't become a predominant mode of communication until the
```

> 19th and 20th century where the first journal abstract was created [@doi:10.1021/ci00050a001; @raw:smith2006trouble; @doi:10.1300/J123v41n01_04].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
19th and 20th centuries when the first journal abstract was created [@doi:10.1021/ci00050a001; @raw:smith2006trouble; @doi:10.1300/J123v41n01_04].
```

> Although scientific journals became the primary source of communication, they came with a number of problems such as high maintenance costs and long publication times [@raw:smith2006trouble; @doi:10.1300/J123v41n01_04].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although scientific journals became the primary method of communication, they added high maintenance costs and long publication times to scientific discourse [@raw:smith2006trouble; @doi:10.1300/J123v41n01_04].
```

Scientists' solution to some of these issues was to communicate through preprints, which are scholarly works that have yet to undergo peer review process [@doi:10.1177/0192623318767322; @doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.2003995].

Preprints are commonly hosted on online repositories, where users have open and easy access to these works.
Notable repositories include arXiv [@doi:10.1108/14666180010345564], bioRxiv [@doi:10.1101/833400] and medRxiv [@url:https://www.medrxiv.org/]; however, there are over 60 different repositories available [@url:https://scholarlykitchen.sspnet.org/2019/10/16/the-second-wave-of-preprint-servers-how-can-publishers-keep-afloat/].

> In respect to the life science community previous work was centered around analyzing the metadata behind the bioRxiv repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The burgeoning uptake of preprints in life sciences has been examined through research focused on metadata from the bioRxiv repository.
```

For example, scientists found that life science preprints are being posted at an increasingly high rate [@doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.3000269].
Furthermore, these preprints are being rapidly shared on social media, routinely downloaded, and cited [@doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0047523].
Certain preprint categories are read and shared by both scientists and non-scientists alike [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.06.981589].
Overall, about two-thirds to three-quarters of preprints are eventually published [@doi:10.7554/eLife.45133.001; @doi:10.1002/pra2.175] and life science articles that have a corresponding preprint version are cited and discussed more often than articles without them [@doi:10.1162/qss_a_00043; @doi:10.7554/eLife.52646; @doi:10.12688/f1000research.19619.2].

> In respect to time, preprints take an average of 160 days to become published [@doi:10.2139/ssrn.3455146], while preprints with a single version often take less time than preprints with multiple versions [@doi:10.2139/ssrn.3455146].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Preprints take an average of 160 days to become published [@doi:10.2139/ssrn.3455146], and those with multiple versions take longer to publish [@doi:10.2139/ssrn.3455146].
```

In spite of the success and excitement of preprints, there are number of issues that arose from their constant use.

> Preprint repositories receive an enormous amount of preprint submissions which results in a number of functionality issues [@doi:10.1371/journal.pgen.1008565].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Preprint repositories receive a growing number of submissions, which poses challenges for this mode of communication [@doi:10.1371/journal.pgen.1008565].
```

> For example, repositories have a hard time searching and linking preprints with their published counterparts [@doi:10.1038/530265a; @doi:10.7554/eLife.52646], which results in a missing links within the repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, repositories have a hard time searching and linking preprints with their published counterparts [@doi:10.1038/530265a; @doi:10.7554/eLife.52646], which results in missing links and consequently erroneous metadata.
```

Furthermore, these repositories lack tools to show how textual content of preprints are altered due to the peer review process [@doi:10.1371/journal.pgen.1008565].
These repositories are open access for all to view preprints, which results in concern from scientists that they could be scooped by competitors [@doi:10.1371/journal.pgen.1008565; @doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.3000151].
Plus, preprint repositories do not have in-depth peer review which can result in posted preprints containing inconsistent results or conclusions [@doi:10.12688/f1000research.19619.2; @doi:10.1007/s10393-018-1352-3; @doi:10.1038/530265a; @doi:10.1016/j.bpj.2016.06.035].

> Despite these discoveries, one piece information that has yet to be examined is the textual content contained within the bioRxiv repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Despite a growing emphasis on using the study of preprints to examine the publishing process in the life sciences, how these findings related to the text of documents within bioRxiv has not been examined.

```

Textual analysis is a methodology that uses linguistic, statistical and machine learning techniques to analyze and extract information from text [@doi:10.1111/1475-679X.12123]. 
This set of techniques have made a sizable impact within the life science community by providing valuable insight on biomedical text.
For instance, scientists analyzed linguistic similarities and differences of biomedical corpora [@doi:10.1186/1471-2105-10-183;10.1186/1471-2105-9-S3-S6; @pmc:PMC442180].
Scientists have provided the community with a number of tools that aide future text mining systems [@doi:10.1093/bib/bbs084; @doi:10.1093/nar/gkz389; @doi:10.1186/s12859-017-1775-9] as well as advice on how to train and test future text processing systems [@doi:10.1186/1471-2105-11-492; @doi:10.1186/1471-2105-13-207; @doi:10.1186/s12859-019-2604-0].

> Due to the previous successes within this field, we sought to use this type of methodology for analyzing the bioRxiv repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We used textual analysis to examine the bioRxiv repository, placing a particular emphasis on understanding the extent to which full text analysis can address hypotheses derived from the analysis of metadata alone.

```

> Plus, to our knowledge this is the first time textual analysis has been conducted on the bioRxiv repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> In this work we sought to analyze the textual content contained within the bioRxiv repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Through this work we can contextualize how this language changes under the guise of peer review and provide initial insight on which sections are altered.
Furthermore, this work provides an opportunity to improve repository functionality and motivate future ideas on augmenting preprint repository capabilities.

> We accomplished the above goals through a set of analyses.

Reviewer: This paragraph is more or less a list of what you did. Is there a way to get a slightly zoomed out paragraph (not so much on the specific analyses) that talks very briefly about why + hints at what you learned and that uses what you did in support of that? I think of this paragraph a bit like the trailer for the paper.
